
# Hashing - Crypto 101

## Key Terms

- **Plaintext** - Data before encryption or hashing, often text but not always as it could be a photograph or other file instead.
- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">**Encoding** - This is NOT a form of encryption, just a form of data representation like base64 or hexadecimal. Immediately reversible.</mark>
- **Hash** - A hash is the output of a hash function. Hashing can also be used as a verb, "to hash", meaning to produce the hash value of some data.
- **Brute** force - Attacking cryptography by trying every different password or every different key
- **Cryptanalysis** - Attacking cryptography by finding a weakness in the underlying maths

## What is a hash function?

Hash functions are quite different from encryption. There is no key, and it’s meant to be impossible (or very very difficult) to go from the output back to the input.  Good hashing algorithms will be (relatively) fast to compute, and slow to reverse (Go from output and determine input).

## Uses for hashing

 Two main uses: to verify integrity of data or for verifying passwords.

Instead of storing the password, store the hash of the password This means you never have to store the user's password, and if your database was leaked then an attacker would have to crack each password to find out what the password was

A **rainbow table** is a lookup table of hashes to plaintexts, so you can quickly find out what password a user had just from the hash.
Hash collision

To protect against rainbow tables, we add a **salt** to the passwords. 

## Recognizing password hashes

Learn hashes yourself!! Use a healthy combination of context and tools!

On Linux, password hashes are stored in<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)"> /etc/shadow</span>. This file is normally only readable by root. On Windows, password hashes are stored in the **SAM**. Windows tries to prevent normal users from dumping them, but tools like <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">mimikatz</span> exist for this. Importantly, the hashes found there are split into NT hashes and LM hashes.

|                               |                                                            |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Prefix                        | Algorithm                                                  |
| $1$                           | md5crypt, used in Cisco stuff and older Linux/Unix systems |
| *$2$, $2a$, $2b$, $2x$, $2y$* | Bcrypt (Popular for web applications)                      |
| $6$                           | sha512crypt (Default for most Linux/Unix systems)          |

A great place to find more hash formats and password prefixes is the hashcat example page, available here: [https://hashcat.net/wiki/doku.php?id=example_hashes](https://hashcat.net/wiki/doku.php?id=example_hashes). Never underestimate the power of research.

## Password Cracking

Graphics cards have thousands of cores. Although they can’t do the same sort of work that a CPU can, they are very good at some of the maths involved in hash functions. This means you can use a graphics card to crack most hash types much more quickly. It’s worth mentioning that virtual machines normally don’t have access to the host's graphics card(s). If you want to run hashcat, it’s best to run it on your host. . John the ripper uses CPU by default and as such, works in a VM out of the box although you may get better speeds running it on the host OS as it will have more threads and no overhead from running in a VM.

hashcat -m -a [hash file] [wordlist]

# John the Ripper: The Basics

[[../../2. Cyber Security 101/4. Cryptography/4. Cryptography#John the Ripper: The Basics]]

# Encryption - Crypto 101

There's a little bit of math(s) that comes up relatively often in cryptography. The Modulo operator. When learning division for the first time, you were probably taught to use remainders in your answer. X % Y is the remainder when X is divided by Y. An important thing to remember about modulo is that it’s not reversible. If I gave you an equation: x % 5 = 4, there are infinite values of x that will be valid.

  

RSA is based on the mathematically difficult problem of working out the factors of a large number. It’s very quick to multiply two prime numbers together, say 17*23 = 391, but it’s quite difficult to work out what two prime numbers multiply together to make 14351

  

The key variables that you need to know about for RSA in CTFs are p, q, m, n, e, d, and c.

  

- “p” and “q” are large prime numbers, “n” is the product of p and q.
    
- The public key is n and e, the private key is n and d.
    
- “m” is used to represent the message (in plaintext) and “c” represents the ciphertext (encrypted text).
    

  
  

SSH Private Keys

  

You should treat your private SSH keys like passwords. It’s very important to mention that the passphrase to decrypt the key isn’t used to identify you to the server at all, all it does is decrypt the SSH key. The passphrase is never transmitted, and never leaves your system. Using tools like John the Ripper, you can attack an encrypted SSH key to attempt to find the passphrase, which highlights the importance of using a secure passphrase and keeping your private key private.

  

When generating an SSH key to log in to a remote machine, you should generate the keys on your machine and then copy the public key over as this means the private key never exists on the target machine. The ~/.ssh folder is the default place to store these keys for OpenSSH. The authorized_keys  file in this directory holds public keys that are allowed to access the server if key authentication is enabled.

  

ssh -i keyNameGoesHere user@host is how you specify a key for the standard Linux OpenSSH client.

  

SSH keys are an excellent way to “upgrade” a reverse shell, assuming the user has login enabled .  Leaving an SSH key in authorized_keys on a box can be a useful backdoor

  

Key exchange allows 2 people/parties to establish a set of common cryptographic keys without an observer being able to get these keys. Generally, to establish common symmetric keys. DH Key Exchange is often used alongside RSA public key cryptography, to prove the identity of the person you’re talking to with digital signing.


PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy. It’s a software that implements encryption for encrypting files, performing digital signing and more. GPG is an Open Source implementation of PGP from the GNU project. You may need to use GPG to decrypt files in CTFs. With PGP/GPG, private keys can be protected with passphrases in a similar way to SSH private keys. If the key is passphrase protected, you can attempt to crack this passphrase using John The Ripper and gpg2john.


  

