---
sr-due: 2025-05-27
sr-interval: 41
sr-ease: 210
---

#review 
#defensive_security

# Digital Forensics Fundamentals

The branch of forensics that investigates cyber crimes is known as **digital forensics**. **Cyber crime** is any criminal activity conducted on or using a digital device.

## Digital Forensics Methodology

The NIST defines a general process of digital forensics in four phases

- **Collection**: Identifying all the devices from which the data can be collected is essential. It is necessary to ensure the data is not  tampered with while collecting the evidence and to maintain a proper document containing the collected items details
- **Examination**: Usually data needs to be filtered and the data of interest needs to be extracted. 
- **Analysis**: This is a critical phase. The investigators now have to analyze the data by correlating it with multiple pieces of evidence to draw conclusions. The analysis aims to extract activities relevant to the case chronologically. 
- **Reporting**: The report contains the investigation methodology and detailed findings from the collected evidence. It may also contain recommendations. This report is presented to law enforcement and executive management. 

Common types of digital forensics
- Computer forensics
- Mobile forensics
- Network forensics
- Database forensics
- Cloud forensics
- Email forensics

## Evidence Acquisition

#### Proper Authorization

The forensics team should obtain proper authorization from relevant authorities before collecting any data. Evidence without prior approval may be inadmissible in court. 

#### Chain of Custody

A chain of custody is a formal document containing all the details of the evidence. Some of the key details are:

- Description of the evidence
- Name and individual who collected the evidence
- Date and time of evidence collection
- Storage location of each piece of evidence
- Access times and the individual record who accessed the evidence

This creates a proper trail of evidence and helps preserve it. 

#### Use of write blockers

Integral part of a forensics teams toolbox. Makes sure devices stay in their original state as the write blocker can block any evidence alteration actions

## Windows Forensics

The most common type of evidence collected from crime scenes are desktop computers and laptops. 

As part of the data collection phase, forensic images of the windows system are taken. These images are bit-by-bit copies of the whole operating system. Two different categories of forensic images are taken from a Windows OS

- Disk image: this contains all the data present on the storage device of the system (HDD,SSD.etc.) This data is non-volatile
- Memory image: this contains the data inside the operating systems RAM. This memory is volatile. To capture open files, running processes, current network connections, etc., the memory image should be prioritized and taken first from the suspect’s operating system; otherwise, any restart or shutdown of the system would result in all the volatile data getting deleted.

Popular tools used for disk and memory image acquisition and analysis of the Windows operating system.

**<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">FTK Imager</span>:** FTK Imager is a widely used tool for taking disk images of Windows operating systems. It offers a user-friendly graphical interface for creating the image in various formats.
**<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">Autopsy</span>:** [Autopsy](https://www.autopsy.com/) is a popular open-source digital forensics platform. An investigator can import an acquired disk image into this tool, and the tool will conduct an extensive analysis of the image.
**<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">DumpIt</span>:** [DumpIt](https://www.toolwar.com/2014/01/dumpit-memory-dump-tools.html) offers the utility of taking a memory image from a Windows operating system. This tool creates memory images using a command-line interface and a few commands.
**<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">Volatility</span>:** [Volatility](https://volatilityfoundation.org/) is a powerful open-source tool for analyzing memory images. It offers some extremely useful plugins. Each artifact can be analyzed using a specific plugin.


## Practical Example of Digital Forensics

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">Pdfinfo</span> displays various metadata related to a PDF file, such as title, subject, author, creator, and creation date.

#### Photo EXIF Data

EXIF stands for Exchangeable Image File Format; it is a standard for saving metadata to image files. Whenever you take a photo with your smartphone or with your digital camera, plenty of information gets embedded in the image. The following are examples of metadata that can be found in the original digital images:

- Camera model / Smartphone model
- Date and time of image capture
- Photo settings such as focal length, aperture, shutter speed, and ISO settings

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">ExifTool</span> is used to read and write metadata in various file types, such as JPEG images.