
# CyberChef: The Basics

CyberChef is a web-based application designed to help with various cyber operations within your web browser. These tasks range from encoding like XOR or Base64 to complex operations such as AES encryption or RSA decryption. CyberChef operates on recipes, a series of operations executed in order.

#### The Operations Area

This is a practical and comprehensive repository of all the diverse operations that CyberChef is equipped to perform. You can directly check how the operations work by hovering on the specific operation.

#### The Recipe Area

This is considered as the heart of the tool. In this area you can arrange and fine tune operations suited to your needs. The **BAKE** button is used to process the data. **Auto Bake** allows users to automatically cook using the selected recipe without manually clicking the BAKE button

#### Input Area

provides a user-friendly space where you can easily input text or files by pasting, typing, or dragging them to perform operations.

#### Output Area

showcases the data processing results

# CAPA: The Basics

CAPA (Common Analysis Platform for Artifacts) is designed to help identify the capabilities present in executable files like Portable Executables (PE), ELF binaries, .NET modules, shellcode, and even sandbox reports. It does this by analyzing the file and applying a set of rules the describes common behaviors, allowing it to determine what the program is capable of doing. 

It encapsulates years of reverse engineering knowledge into an automated tool, making it accessible even to those who may not be experts in reverse engineering. This can be incredibly useful for analysts and security professionals, allowing them to quickly understand potentially malicious software's functionality without manually reverse engineering the code.

## Tool Overview: How CAPA Works

1. Open PowerShell.
2. Make sure you are in directory **C:\Users\Administrator\Desktop\capa**
3. Run capa command and point to the binary file

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-h </span> gives more info about the parameters available 
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-v</span> enables verbose result document

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 1: General Information, MITRE and MAEC

The first block contains basic information about the file.

#### MITRE ATT&CK

The MITRE ATT&CK (Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge) is a repository that documents the tactics and techniques employed by threat actors at every stage of the cyber-attack. 

In CAPA's final output, they referenced the MITRE Framework. This helps analysts or defenders map the file's behavior to the adversary's playbook, which can help narrow down the scope of the investigation during an incident. 

#### MAEC

**Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization** is a specialized language designed to encode and communicate complex details concerning malware. . This language functions as a standardized system for tracking and analyzing the complicated complexities of malware.

Common MAEC values:

- Launcher - Exhibits behaviors that trigger specific actions similar to malware behavior.
- Downloader - Exhibits behaviors wherein it downloads and executes other files, usually seen on more complex malware.

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 2: Malware Behavior Catalogue
### Malware Behavior Catalogue (MBC)

MBC is designed to support various aspects of malware analysis, such as labelling, similarity analysis, and standardized reporting. It is essentially a catalog of malware objectives and behaviors.  MBC users will reference ATT&CK, but MBC does not duplicate ATT&CK information.

#### Objective

The Objective are based on ATT&CK tactics in the context of malware behavior. Behaviors include but are not limited to:
- Anti-Behavioral Analysis
- Anti-Static Analysis
- Collection
- C2
- Credential Access

#### Micro-Objective

Micro-objectives are associated with micro-behaviors, which refer to an action or actions exhibited by potentially malicious software that isn't necessarily malicious and may serve various objectives. **These behaviors are typically abused**

#### MBC Behaviors

 MBC Behaviors contains behaviors and Micro-behaviors with or without its methods and identifiers.

#### Micro-Behavior

The term "low-level behaviors" in malware analysis refers to actions exhibited by malware that aren't necessarily malicious and may serve various objectives. It's important to **note that just because a behavior is categorized as low-level does not mean it is harmless**. 

#### Methods

Methods are tied to behaviors

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 3: Namespaces

[capa rules](https://github.com/MBCProject/capa-rules-1?tab=readme-ov-file#namespace-organization)

# REMnux: Getting Started

