---
sr-due: 2025-02-23
sr-interval: 26
sr-ease: 243
---

#review
# Network Concepts

## OSI model / TCP IP Model

| Layer        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Application  | Works almost exclusively with applications, providing an interface for them to use to transmit data. **(SNMP, HTTP, FTP)**                                                                         |
| Presentation | Translates the data into a standardized format, as well as handling any encryption, compression, or other transformations to the data. **(ASCII, PNG)**                                            |
| Session      | Establishes a connection between devices **(SYN/ACK)**                                                                                                                                             |
| Transport    | Sets up direct communication between connected devices **(TCP,UDP)**                                                                                                                               |
| Network      | Responsible for routing data, and locating the destination of your request. Logical addressing **(IP, Routers)**                                                                                   |
| Data Link    | Communication between locally connected devices. checks the received information to make sure that it hasn't been corrupted during transmission. Physical addressing **(MAC addresses, Switches)** |
| Physical     | The hardware of the computer; converts the binary data of the transmission into signals and transmits them across the network **(RJ45)**                                                           |

## Telnet
The TELNET (Teletype Network) protocol is a network protocol for remote terminal connection. In simpler words, telnet, a TELNET client, allows you to connect to and communicate with a remote system and issue text commands
# Networking Essentials

When you access a network, the following need to be configured:
- IP address
- Router (Gateway)
- DNS Server

You should manually configure servers as they are not expected to move networks. Also, other devices need to connect to them and find them at a specific address

Automating configuration has many advantages:
- It saves us from having to manually configure the network which is extremely important for mobile devices
- Saves us from address conflicts

<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">DHCP</mark> is an application level protocol that operates on UDP. Port 67 for server listening and 68 for clients sending 

DHCP follows four steps;; Discover, Offer, Request, and Acknowledge (DORA):
<!--SR:!2025-02-06,10,210-->
1. Discover: Client broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER message seeking the local DHCP server if one exists. Uses 255.255.255.255
2. Offer: Server responds with a DHCPOFFER message with an IP address available for the client to accept
3. Request: Client responds with a DHCPREQUEST message to indicate that it has accepted the offered IP
4. Acknowledge: Server responds with a DHCPPACK message to confirm that the offered IP  address is now assigned to the client

## ARP: Bridging Layer 3 Addressing to Layer 2 Addressing

Whenever one hosts needs to communicate with another host on the same network (ethernet or Wi-Fi), <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">it must send the IP packet within the data link layer frame</span> .  Although it knows the IP address of the target host, it needs to look up the targets MAC address so the proper data link layer can be created

Devices on the same Ethernet network do not need to know each others MAC addresses all the time; they only need to know it while communicating. Everything else revolves around IP address. 

**ARP** makes it possible to find MAC addresses of another device on the Ethernet. It is encapsulated directly in Ethernet frame

## ICMP: Troubleshooting Networks

**ICMP** is mainly used for network diagnostics and error reporting . Two common commands are:
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ping</span>: tests connectivity to a target and measures round-trip time (RTT)
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">traceroute</span>: discovers route from your host to a target

### Ping

Sends ICMP Echo Request (Type 8)
Computer on receiving end responds with and  ICMP Echo Reply (Type 0)
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-c 4</span>   tell the ping command to stop after sending four packets

### Traceroute

Makes every router between our system and a target reveal itself

TTL indicates the maximum number of routers a packet can travel through before it is dropped. The router decrements the packets TTL by one before it sends it across. When TTL reaches zero, the router drops the packets and sends an ICMP Time exceeded message (Type 11) <u>(In this context, “time” is measured in the number of routers, not seconds.)</u>

Some routers respond and show their public IP address, and this would let us look up their domain name and discover their geographic location.

## Routing
#routing
- **OSPF (Open Shortest Path First)**;; Allows users to share information about the network topology and calculate the most efficient paths of data transmission. Does so by having routers exchange updates about the state of their connected links and networks
<!--SR:!2025-02-09,13,230-->
- **EIGRP (Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol)**;; Cisco proprietary routing protocol. Allows routers to share information about the networks they can reach and the cost associated with these routers
<!--SR:!2025-02-23,19,230-->
- **BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)**;; Primary protocol used by the Internet. Allows different networks to exchange routing information and establish paths for data to travel between these networks
<!--SR:!2025-02-09,5,150-->
- **RIP (Routing Information Protocol)**;; Often used in small networks. Shares information about the networks they can reach and the number of hops required to get there.  As a result, each router builds a routing table based on this information, choosing the routes with the fewest hops to reach each destination.
<!--SR:!2025-02-07,7,190-->

## NAT

One public IP address provides Internet access to many private IP addresses.  The router maintains a table that maps the internal IP address and port number with its external IP address and port number. 

# Networking Core Protocols

**DNS** operates at Layer 7, uses port UDP 53 by default and TCP 53 as a backup

**A record** maps a hostname to one or more IPv4 addresses
**AAAA record** same as A record but for IPv6
**CNAME record** maps a domain name to another domain name
**MX record** mail exchange server

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">nslookup</span>  to get these records

## WHOIS

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">whois</span> record provides information about the entity that registered a domain name, including name, phone number, email, and address. 

Some whois records are protected by privacy protection

## HTTP(S): Accessing the Web
Defines how your web browser communicates with the web servers.

- **GET** retrieves data from a server
- **POST** submits new data to a server
- **PUT** creates a new resource on the server and updates and overwrites existing information
- **DELETE** deletes a resource

Ports 80,443,8080,8443

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">telnet</span> MACHINE_IP 80
<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">GET / HTTP/1.1</mark> and <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Host: anything </mark>to get the page we wanted

## FTP: Transferring Files

- **USER** input user name
- **PASS** enter password
- **RETR** used to download a file from the FTP server to client
- **STOR** upload a file from client to FTP server

FTP server listens on port 21, transferred on 22

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ftp</span> MACHINE_IP

## SMTP: Sending Email

- **HELO** or **EHLO** established connection 
- **MAIL FROM** specifies the senders email address
- **RCPT TO** specifies recipients email address
- **DATA** indicates that the client will begin sending the content of the email message
- **.** is sent on a line by itself to indicate the end 

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">telnet</span> MACHINE_IP 25
## POP3: Receiving Email

- **USER**  **(username)** identifies the user
- **PASS** **(password)** provides the user’s password
- **STAT** requests the number of messages and total size
- **LIST** lists all messages and their sizes
- **RETR** **(message_number)** the specified message
- **DELE**  **(message_number)** marks a message for deletion
- **QUIT** ends the POP3 session applying changes, such as deletions

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">telnet</span> MACHINE_IP 110

## IMAP: Synchronizing Email

- **LOGIN  (username) (password)** authenticates the user
- **SELECT (mailbox)** selects the mailbox folder to work with
- **FETCH (mail_number) (data_item_name)** Example **fetch 3 body[]** to fetch message number 3, header and body.
- **MOVE** (sequence_set) (mailbox) moves the specified messages to another mailbox
- **COPY (sequence_set) (data_item_name)** copies the specified messages to another mailbox
- **LOGOUT** logs out


# Networking Secure Protocols

## TLS

Cryptographic protocol operating at layer 4. Allows secure communication between a client and a server over and insecure network. 

#### Technical Background 

1. First step for every server (or client) needs to identify itself to get a signed TLS certificate (Generally, the server administrator creates a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and submits it to a Certificate Authority (CA))
2. Once the signed certificate is received, it can be used to identify the server (or client) to others, who can confirm the validity of the signature. For a host to confirm the validity of a signed certificate, the certificates of the signing authorities need to be installed on the host.

## HTTPS

Steps before a web browser can request a web page over **HTTP**:
1. Establish a three-way handshake with the target server
2. Communicate using the HTTP protocol; for example, issue HTTP requests, such as GET / HTTP/1.1

Requesting a page over **HTTPS** will require the following three steps (after resolving the domain name):
1. Establish a TCP three-way handshake with the target server
2. Establish a TLS session
3. Communicate using the HTTP protocol; for example, issue HTTP requests, such as GET / HTTP/1.1

  
## SMTPS, POP3S, and IMAPS

Adding TLS to SMTP, POP3, and IMAP is no different than adding TLS to HTTP. Traffic is no longer sent in cleartext

|Protocol|Default Port Number|
|---|---|
|HTTPS|443|
|SMTPS|465 and 587|
|POP3S|995|
|IMAPS|993|

## SSH 

OpenSSH benefits:
- Secure authentication: supports password based, public key, and two factor authentication 
- Confidentiality: provides end to end encryption
- Integrity
- Tunneling: can create a tunnel to route to other protocol
- X11 forwarding

The argument <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-X</span> is required to support running graphical interfaces, for example, ssh 192.168.124.148 -X
## VPN

creates a secure, encrypted connection over the internet and masks IP by routing data through a remote server

# Wireshark: The Basics

## Tool Overview

Wireshark can be used to:
- Detect and troubleshoot network problems such as congestion
- Detect security anomalies, such as rogue hosts and abnormal port usage
- Investigate and learn protocol details, such as response code and payload data

<u><b>Coloring Packets</b></u>
<span style="font-weight:bold; color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">View --> Coloring Rules</span> menu to create permanent coloring rules
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">View --> Conversation Filter</span> temporary packet coloring

 <u><b>Merge PCAP Files</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">File --> Merge</span> 

<u><b>View File Details   </b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Statistics --> Capture File</span> Properties shows file hash, capture time, capture file comments, interface and statistics
## Packet Dissection

Investigates packets by decoding available protocols and fields

- The Frame (Layer 1):  shows  what frame/packet you are looking at and details specific to the **Physical** layer of the OSI model
- Source (MAC) (Layer 2): Shows source and destination MAC addresses; from **Data Link** layer
- Source (IP) (Layer 3): Source and destination IPv4 addresses; from **Network** layer of OSI model
- Protocol (Layer 4): show  details of the protocol used (UDP/TCP) and source and destination ports; from the Transport layer of the OSI model.
	- Protocol **errors**: shows specific segments from TCP that needed to be reassembled
- Application Protocol (Layer 5): shows details specific to the protocol used, such as HTTP, FTP,  and SMB. From the **Application** layer of the OSI model.
	- Application data: shows application-specific data

## Packet Navigation

 <u><b>Find Packets</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Edit --> Find Packet </span>to search inside a packet for a particular event of interest

There are two crucial points in finding packets:
 - **Input type**: This functionality accepts four types of inputs (Display filter, Hex, String and Regex)
 - **Search field**:  You can conduct searches in the three panes (packet list, packet details, and packet bytes). It is important to know the available information in each pane

  <u><b>Mark Packets</b></u>
You can find/point to a specific packet for further investigation by marking it. Use <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">edit</span> or <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">right click</span> to mark

<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Marked packets will be lost after closing the capture file</mark>

   <u><b>Packet Comments</b></u>
Similar to packet marking except comments stay after closing file

<u><b>Export Packets</b></u>
Sometimes it is necessary to separate specific packages from the file and dig deeper to resolve an incident. You can use the <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">File</span> menu to export packets.

<u><b>Export Objects (Files) </b></u>
Wireshark can extract files transferred through the wire. For a security analyst, it is vital to discover shared files and save them for further investigation.

 <u><b>Time Display Format</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">View --> Time Display Format</span>  to change the time display format

<u><b>Expert Info  </b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Analyse --> Expert Information</span>

 Wireshark can detect specific states of protocols to help analysts easily spot anomalies and problems. They are only suggestions and there is always a chance of having false positive/negatives

| **Severity** | **Colour**                                             | **Info**                                                 |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chat**     | **<span style="color:rgb(15, 53, 240)">Blue</span>**   | Information on usual workflow.                           |
| **Note**     | **<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">Cyan</span>**   | Notable events like application error codes.             |
| **Warn**     | **<span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Yellow</span>** | Warnings like unusual error codes or problem statements. |
| **Error**    | **<span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">Red</span>**      | Problems like malformed packets.                         |


Go to packet number 39765
Look at the "packet details pane". Right-click on the JPEG section and "Export packet bytes". This is an alternative way of extracting data from a capture file. What is the MD5 hash value of extracted image?


## Packet Filtering

Helps analysts narrow down traffic and focus on the events of interest. Filters are specific queries designed for protocols available in Wireshark. The two ways to filter traffic are through **queries** and using the **right-click menu**

<u><b>Apply as Filter</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Analyze --> Apply as Filter</span>

You can click on the field you want to filter and filter the specific value

<u><b>Conversation filter </b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Analyze --> Conversation Filter</span>

Allows you to view only the related packets and hide the rest of the packets 

<u><b>Colorized conversation </b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">View --> Colourise Conversation</span>

Similar to conversation filter except it highlights the linked packets without applying a display filter and decreasing the number of viewed packets

 <u><b>Prepare as Filter</b></u>
Similar to Apply as Filter, however it adds the query to the pane and waits for the execution command (enter) or another chosen filtering option by using the **.. and/or.."** from the **right-click menu**

 <u><b>Apply as Column  </b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Analyse  -->  Apply as Column</span>

adds columns to the packet list pane.

 <u><b>Follow Stream </b></u>

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Analyse --> Follow TCP/UDP/HTTP Stream</span>

It is possible to reconstruct the streams and view the raw traffic as it is presented at the application level. Following the protocol  streams help analysts recreate the application-level data and understand the event of interest. It is also possible to view the unencrypted protocol data like usernames, passwords and other transferred data.

# Tcpdump: The Basics

#tcp_dump
Tcpdump tool and its libpcap library are written in C and C++

## Basic Packet Capture

- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-i</span> ;; specifies interface could use <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">any</span> to listen on all interface or specify one such as <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">eth0</span>
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,3,250-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ip address show</span> (<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ip a s </span>) ;; lists available network interfaces
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,2,230-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-w FILE</span> ;; saves captured packets
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-r FILE</span> ;; reads captured packets.  You can capture network traffic over a suitable time frame to inspect a protocol, then read the captured packets while applying filters to display the packets you are interested in
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,2,230-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-c COUNT</span> ;; specifies number of packets to capture
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,2,230-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-n</span> ;; avoids making DNS lookups
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,3,250-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-nn</span> ;; stops both DNS and port number lookups
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">- v</span> ;; verbose output. add up to three v's for more verbose output
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->

## Filtering Expressions

<u><b>Filtering by Host</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">src host IP</span> or <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">HOSTNAME</span>  ;; limits packets from a particular source IP address or hostname
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,3,250-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">dst host IP</span> or <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">HOSTNAME</span> ;; limit packets sent to a specific destination
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,2,230-->

<u><b>Filtering by Port</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">port</span> ;; specifies port
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">scr</span> or <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">dst</span> <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">PORT_NUMBER</span> ;; packets sent to or from a specific port number.
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->

<u><b>Filtering by Protocol</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ip</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ip6</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">udp</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">tcp</span>, and <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">icmp</span> ;; filter by protocol
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->

<u><b>Logical Operators</b></u>
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">and</span> ;; captures traffic when both conditions are true
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">or</span> ;; captures traffic when one of the conditions are true
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">not</span> ;; captures traffic when the condition is not true
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">wc </span> you can count the lines by piping the output
## Advanced Filtering

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">greater LENGTH</span> ;; filters packets that have a length greater than or equal to the specified length
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> less LENGTH </span>;; filters packets that have a length less than or equal to the specified length
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,3,250-->

<span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">man pcap-filter</span> 

<b><u> Binary Operations</u></b>

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">&</span> (And) takes two bits and returns 0 unless both inputs are 1, as shown in the table below.

|Input 1|Input 2|Input1 `&` Input 2|
|---|---|---|
|0|0|0|
|0|1|0|
|1|0|0|
|1|1|1|

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">|</span> (Or) takes two bits and returns 1 unless both inputs are 0. This is shown in the table below.

|Input 1|Input 2|Input 1 `\|` Input 2|
|---|---|---|
|0|0|0|
|0|1|1|
|1|0|1|
|1|1|1|

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">!</span> (Not) takes one bit and inverts it; an input of 1 gives 0, and an input of 0 gives 1, as shown in the table below.

|Input 1|`!` Input 1|
|---|---|
|0|1|
|1|0|

<b><u> Header Bytes</u></b>

Filter packets based on content of a header byte using the syntax <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">proto[expr:size]</span> where:
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">proto</span> ;; refers to the protocol such as arp, ether, icmp, ip, ip6, tcp, and udp
<!--SR:!2025-01-10,4,270-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">expr</span> ;;indicates the byte offset, where 0 refers to the first byte
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">size</span> ;; indicates the number of bytes that interest us
<!--SR:!2025-01-09,2,230-->

You can use <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">tcp[tcpflags]</span> to refer to the TCP flags field. The following TCP flags are available to compare with:

tcp-syn TCP SYN (Synchronize)
tcp-ack TCP ACK (Acknowledge)
tcp-fin TCP FIN (Finish)
tcp-rst TCP RST (Reset)
tcp-push TCP Push

## Displaying Packets

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-q</span> ;; Quick output; print brief packet information
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-e</span> ;; Print the link-level header
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-A</span> ;;Show packet data in ASCII
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-x</span> ;; Show packet data in hexadecimal format, referred to as hex
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-X</span> ;; Show packet headers and data in hex and ASCII
<!--SR:!2025-01-08,1,210-->