# Defensive Security Intro

Defensive Security is concerned with two main tasks:
1. Preventing intrusions from occurring
2. Detecting intrusions when they occur and responding properly 

Some tasks that are related to defensive security include:
- User cyber security awareness
- Documenting and managing assets
- Updating and patching systems
- Setting up preventative security devices
- Setting up logging and monitoring devices

## Areas of Defensive Security

A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of cyber security specialists that monitor the networks and its systems to detect malicious cyber events. Some main areas of interest for a SOC are:

- Vulnerabilities
- Policy violations
- Unauthorized activity
- Network intrusion
### Threat Intelligence

Intelligence refers to information you gather about actual and potential enemies. A threat is any action that can disrupt or adversely affect a system. Threat intelligence collects information to help the company better prepare against potential adversaries. The purpose would be to achieve a *threat-informed defense*.

### Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)

#### Digital Forensics

In defensive security, the focus on digital forensics shifts to analyzing evidence of an attack and its perpetrators and other areas such as intellectual property theft, cyber espionage, and possession of unauthorized content. Digital forensics focuses on other areas, such as:

- File System: Analyzing a digital forensics image (low-level copy) of a system’s storage reveals a lot of information, such as installed programs, created files, etc.
- System memory: taking a forensic image (low-level copy) of the system memory after a malicious program is ran
- System logs: Log files provide plenty of information about what happened on a system. Even if the attacker tries to clear their traces, some traces will remain.
- Network logs: Logs of the network packets that have traversed a network would help answer more questions about whether an attack is occurring and what it entails.

#### Incident Response

An incident usually refers to a data breach or cyber attack; however, in some cases, it can be something less critical, such as a misconfiguration, an intrusion attempt, or a policy violation. The four major phases of the incident response process are:

1. Preparation
2. Detection
3. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
4. Post-Incident Activity

### Malware Analysis

Malware stands for malicious software. Software refers to programs, documents, and files you can save on a disk or send over the network.

- A virus is a piece of code (part of a program) that attaches itself to a program. It is designed to spread from one computer to another and works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer.
- Trojan Horse is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath.
- Ransomware is a malicious program that encrypts the user’s files. The attacker offers the user the encryption password if the user is willing to pay a ransom.