#security_solutions
# Introduction to SIEM

SIEM stands for Security Information and Event Management system. It collects data from various endpoints/network devices across the network, stores them in a centralized place, and performs correlation on them. 

## Network Visibility through SIEM

Each network component can have one or more log sources generating different logs. We can divide our network log sources into two logical parts:

1. Host-Centric Log Sources 
?
	These are log sources that capture events that occurred within or related to the host. Some log sources that generate host-centric logs are Windows Event logs, Sysmon, Osquery, etc. Some examples include:
	
	- A user accessing a file 
	- A user attempting to authenticate
	- A process execution
	- PowerShell execution

2. Network-Centric Log Sources
?
	Network generated logs are generated when the hosts communicate with each other or access the internet to visit a website. Some network-based protocols are SSH, VPN, HTTP/s, FTP, etc. Examples of such events are:
	
	- SSH connection
	- A file being accessed via FTP
	- Web traffic
	- NFS activity

### Importance of SIEM

It provides the ability to correlate between events, search through the logs, investigate incidents and respond promptly. Some key features provided by SIEM are:

- Real-time log Ingestion
- Alerting against abnormal activities
- 24/7 Monitoring and visibility
- Protection against the latest threats through early detection
- Data Insights and visualization
- Ability to investigate past incidents.

## Log Source and Log Ingestion

#### Windows Machine

Window records every event that can be viewed through the **Event Viewer** utility. It assigns a unique ID to each type of log activity making it easy for the analyst to examine and keep track of

#### Linux Workstations

Linux OS stores all related logs, such as events, errors. warnings, etc. which are then ingested into SIEM for continuous monitoring. Common linux logs are:

- **<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/httpd</span>** : Contains HTTP Request  / Response and error logs.
- **<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/cron</span>**   : Events related to cron jobs are stored in this location.
- **<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/auth.log</span> and <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/secure</span>** : Stores authentication related logs.  
- **<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/kern** </span>: This file stores kernel related events.

#### Web Server

It is important to keep an eye on all requests/responses coming in and out of the webserver for any potential web attack.  In Linux, common locations to write all apache related logs are <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/apache</span> or <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/httpd</span>.

#### Log Ingestion

Each SIEM has its own way of ingesting logs. Some common methods include:

1. Agent / Forwarder: These SIEM solutions provide a lightweight tool called an agent (forwarder by Splunk) that gets installed on the endpoint. It is configured to capture all the important logs and send them to the SIEM server
2. Syslog: Syslog is a widely used protocol to collect data from various systems like web servers, databases, etc., are sent real-time data to the centralized destination.
3. Manual Upload: Some SIEM solutions, like Splunk, ELK, etc., allow users to ingest offline data for quick analysis.
4. Port-Forwarding: SIEM solutions can also be configured to listen on a certain port, and then the endpoints forward the data to the SIEM instance on the listening port.

## Why SIEM

 Once a threat is detected, or a certain threshold is crossed, an alert is raised. This alert enables the analysts to take suitable actions based on the investigation. SIEM plays an important role in the Cyber Security domain and helps detect and protect against the latest threats in a timely manner. It provides good visibility of what's happening within the network infrastructure.

Can hunt for threats that are not detected by the rules in place.

## Analyzing Logs and Alerts

Once logs are ingested, SIEM looks for unwanted behavior or suspicious patterns within the logs with the help of the conditions set in the rules by the analysts. If the conditions are met, a rule gets triggered, and the incident is investigated.

#### Dashboard

Dashboards are the most important components of any SIEM. SIEM presents the data for analysis after being normalized and ingested. The summary of these analyses is presented in the form of actionable insights with the help of multiple dashboards.

#### Correlation Rules

Correlation rules are pretty much logical expressions set to be triggered. A few examples include:

If a User gets 5 failed Login Attempts in 10 seconds - Raise an alert for **Multiple Failed Login Attempts**
If login is successful after multiple failed login attempts - Raise an alert for **Successful Login After multiple Login Attempts**

#### How a correlation rule is created

Use-Case: Adversaries use commands like **whoami** after the exploitation/privilege escalation phase. The following Fields will be helpful to include in the rule.

- Log source: Identify the log source capturing the event logs
- Event ID: which Event ID is associated with Process Execution activity? In this case, event id 4688 will be helpful.
- NewProcessName: which process name will be helpful to include in the rule?

Rule: If Log Source is WinEventLog **AND** EventCode is **4688**, and NewProcessName contains **whoami**, then Trigger an ALERT <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">WHOAMI command Execution DETECTED</mark>

#### Alert Investigation

Once an alert is triggered, an investigation is performed to determine if it's a True or False positive.

# Firewall Fundamentals

A firewall is designed to inspect a network's or digital device’s incoming and outgoing traffic.  The goal is to not let any unauthorized traffic enter a system or a network. . You instruct the firewall by giving it rules to check against all the traffic. It allows or denies rules based on the rules you give it. 

## Types of Firewalls

Different types of firewalls work at different OSI model layers

#### Stateless Firewall

Operates at layer 3 and 4 of the OSI model and works solely by filtering data based on previous rules without taking note of the state of previous connections. These firewalls process packets quickly but cannot apply complex policies to the data based on its relationship with the previous connection. 

#### Stateful Firewall

Operate at layer 3 and layer 4 of the OSI model. Filters packets by predetermined rules as and keeps track of previous connections and stores them in a state table. Stateful firewalls take note of the connections for which they deny a few packets, and based upon this information, they deny all the subsequent packets coming from the same source.

#### Proxy Firewall

 Proxy firewalls, or application-level gateways, act as intermediaries between the private network and the Internet and operate on the OSI model’s layer 7. They inspect content of all packets as well. A user request is forwarded by this proxy after inspection and masks them with their own IP address to provide anonymity for the internal IP addresses.

#### Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW)

Most advanced type of firewall that operates from layer 3 to layer 7 of the OSI model. Offers deep packet inspection and other functionalities that enhance the security of incoming and outgoing traffic. It has an IPS that blocks malicious activities in real time. Offers heuristic analysis by analyzing the patterns of attacks and blocking them before reaching the network.

## Rules in Firewalls

**Source address**: The machine’s IP address that would originate the traffic.
**Destination address**: The machine’s IP address that would receive the data.
**Port**: The port number for the traffic.
**Protocol**: The protocol that would be used during the communication.
**Action**: This defines the action that would be taken upon identifying any traffic of this particular nature.
**Direction**: This field defines the rule’s applicability to incoming or outgoing traffic.

#### Types of Actions

Allow indicates that certain traffic is allowed
Deny means that the traffic defined inside the rule would be blocked and not permitted
Forward redirects traffic to a different network segment

#### Directionality of Rules

Inbound: applied to incoming traffic only
Outbound: outgoing traffic only
Forward:  forwards specific traffic inside the network

## Windows Defender Firewall

This firewall contains all the basic functionality for creating, allowing, or denying specific programs or creating customized rules.

#### Network Profiles

 Windows firewall determines your current network based on Network Location Awareness (NLA) and applies that profile firewall settings for you.
 
**Private networks**: This includes the firewall configurations to apply when connected to our home network.
**Guest or public networks**: This includes the firewall configurations to apply when connected to a public or untrusted network like coffee shops, restaurants, or similar

#### Custom Rules

Windows Defender Firewall also allows you to create custom rules for your network to allow/disallow specific traffic as needed.
## Linux iptables Firewall

#### Netfilter

Netfilter is the framework inside the Linux OS with core firewall functionalities, including packet filtering, NAT, and connection tracking. This is the foundation for many firewall utilities in Linux. Some firewalls that utilize this framework are:

**iptables**: This is the most widely used utility in many Linux distributions.
**nftables**: It is a successor to the “iptables” utility, with enhanced packet filtering and NAT capabilities.
**firewalld**: This utility also operates on the Netfilter framework and has predefined rule sets.

#### ufw

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ufw status</span>
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">ufw allow to</span> or <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">from</span>

# IDS Fundamentals

## What is an IDS

Detects the activities of the  connections that pass through the firewall. If an attacker successfully passes a firewall via a legitimate-looking connection and then performs any malicious activity, there should be something to detect it timely. 

If a firewall is a gate keeper, the IDS would act as the surveillance cameras. If the gatekeeper missed the threat at the gate, the IDS would detect them. It sits in a corner, monitors the network traffic based on its signature and anomaly-based detections, and detects any abnormal traffic going out or inside the network. Upon every detection, an alert is generated for the security administrators. IDS does not act on those detections; it only notifies the security administrators about the malicious activity.