
# Windows Fundamentals 1

## The File System

The file system used in modern versions of Windows is the New Technology File System or simply NTFS. Before NTFS, there was FAT16/FAT32 (File Allocation Table) and HPFS (High Performance File System). NTFS is known as a journaling file system. In case of a failure, the file system can automatically repair the folders/files on disk using information stored in a log file.


You can set permissions on NTFS volumes that grant or deny access to files and folders. The permissions are:

- Full control
- Modify
- Read & Execute
- List folder contents
- Read
- Write

View the permissions for a file or folder Right Click File Or <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Folder > Properties > Security</span>

Another feature of NTFS is Alternate Data Streams (ADS). Alternate Data Streams (ADS) is a file attribute specific to Windows NTFS (New Technology File System). Every file has at least one data stream ($DATA), and ADS allows files to contain more than one data stream.

## The Windows\System32 Folders

Environment variables store information about the operating system environment. This information includes details such as the operating system path, the number of processors used by the operating system, and the location of temporary folders. The environment variable for the Windows directory is <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">%windir%</span>. The System32 folder holds important files that are critical for the operating system. You should proceed with extreme caution when interacting with this folder. Accidentally deleting any files or folders within System32 can render the Windows OS inoperational.

## User Accounts, Profiles, and Permissions

Local User and Group Management. Right-click on the Start Menu and click Run. Type <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">lusrmgr.msc</span>


## User Account Control

Elevated privilege increases the risk of system compromise because it makes it easier for malware to infect the system. Consequently, since the user account can make changes to the system, the malware would run in the context of the logged-in user. To protect the local user with such privileges, Microsoft introduced **User Account Control (UAC)**. UAC works when a user with an account type of administrator logs into a system, the current session doesn't run with elevated permissions. When an operation requiring higher-level privileges needs to execute, the user will be prompted to confirm if they permit the operation to run. 


# Windows Fundamentals 2

## System Configuration
 **System Configuration**;; utility (<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">MSConfig</span>) is for advanced troubleshooting, and its main purpose is to help diagnose startup issues. 

1. General -  select what devices and services for Windows to load upon boot
2. Boot -  various boot options for the Operating System
3. Services - lists all services configured for the system regardless of their state
4. Startup - items that start on boot
5. Tools - various utilities to configure the operating system further. There is a brief description of each tool to provide some insight into what the tool is for. 

[Task Manager](https://www.howtogeek.com/405806/windows-task-manager-the-complete-guide/)
## Computer Management

Computer Management;; (<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">compmgmt</span>) utility has three primary sections: System Tools, Storage, and Services and Applications.
#### System Tools

- **Task Scheduler** can create and manage common tasks that our computer will carry out automatically at the times we specify.
- **Event Viewer** allows us to view events that have occurred on the computer. These records of events can be seen as an audit trail that can be used to understand the activity of the computer system. This information is often used to diagnose problems and investigate actions executed on the system. 
	- Five types of events can be logged. This is a [table](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/eventlog/event-types) providing a brief description of each.
	- The standard logs are visible under Windows Logs. This is a [table](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/eventlog/eventlog-key) providing a brief description of each.
- **Shared Folders** is where you will see a complete list of shares and folders shared that others can connect to. 
- **Local Users** and Groups lusrmgr.msc
- In **Performance**, you'll see a utility called Performance Monitor (perfmon). Perfmon is used to view performance data in real-time or from a log file. This utility is useful for troubleshooting performance issues on a computer system, whether local or remote. 
- **Device Manager** allows us to view and configure the hardware, such as disabling any hardware attached to the computer.

#### Storage
- Under Storage is Windows Server Backup and Disk Management. Disk Management is a system utility in Windows that enables you to perform advanced storage tasks.  Some tasks are:
	- Set up a new drive
	- Extend a partition
	- Shrink a partition
	- Assign or change a drive letter (ex. E:) 

#### Services and Applications
- Services and Applications. WMI Control configures and controls the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) service. WMI allows scripting languages (such as VBScript or Windows PowerShell) to manage Microsoft Windows personal computers and servers, both locally and remotely. Microsoft also provides a command-line interface to WMI called Windows Management Instrumentation Command-line (WMIC)

## System Information

This tool gathers information about your computer and displays a comprehensive view of your hardware, system components, and software environment, which you can use to diagnose computer issues.

-  [Hardware Resources](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/hardware-resources) is not for the average computer user. 
- Under Components, you can see specific information about the hardware devices installed on the computer.
- In the Software Environment section, you can see information about software baked into the operating system and software you have installed. Other details are visible in this section as well, such as the Environment Variables (See Windows Fundamentals 1)  

## Resource Monitor

Resource Monitor displays per-process and aggregate CPU, memory, disk, and network usage information, in addition to providing details about which processes are using individual file handles and modules. Advanced filtering allows users to isolate the data related to one or more processes (either applications or services), start, stop, pause, and resume services, and close unresponsive applications from the user interface.  This utility is geared primarily to advanced users who need to perform advanced troubleshooting on the computer system.

## Command Prompt 

- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">hostname</span> will output the computer name.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">whoami</span> will output the name of the logged-in user.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"><span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> ipconfig</span></span>  will show the network address settings for the computer.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> /?</span>  to retrieve the help manual for a command.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">Cls</span> To clear the command prompt screen.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">Netstat</span> will display protocol statistics and current TCP/IP network connections.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">net</span> command is primarily used to manage network resources.

## Windows Registry

 Windows Registry  (per Microsoft) is a central hierarchical database used to store information necessary to configure the system for one or more users, applications, and hardware devices.
 
The registry contains information that Windows continually references during operation, such as:
- Profiles for each user
- Applications installed on the computer and the types of documents that each can create
- Property sheet settings for folders and application icons
- What hardware exists on the system
- The ports that are being used.
 
The registry is for advanced computer users. Making changes to the registry can affect normal computer operations. 

# Windows Fundamentals 3

## Windows Updates
Windows Update is a service provided by Microsoft to provide security updates, feature enhancements, and patches for the Windows operating system and other Microsoft products, such as Microsoft Defender. 

  
## Windows Security 
Windows Security is your home to manage the tools that protect your device and your data

## Virus and Threat Protection

Current threats scan options:
- Quick scan - Checks folders in your system where threats are commonly found.
- Full scan - Checks all files and running programs on your hard disk. This scan could take longer than one hour.
- Custom scan - Choose which files and locations you want to check.

## Virus & threat protection settings 

- Real-time protection - Locates and stops malware from installing or running on your device.
- Cloud-delivered protection - Provides increased and faster protection with access to the latest protection data in the cloud.
- Automatic sample submission - Send sample files to Microsoft to help protect you and others from potential threats. 
- Controlled folder access - Protect files, folders, and memory areas on your device from unauthorized changes by unfriendly applications.
- Exclusions - Windows Defender Antivirus won't scan items that you've excluded.
- Notifications - Windows Defender Antivirus will send notifications with critical information about the health and security of your device. 

 ## [Firewall & network protection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/operating-system-security/network-security/windows-firewall/configure)

- Domain - The domain profile applies to networks where the host system can authenticate to a domain controller. 
- Private - The private profile is user-assigned and is used to designate private or home networks.
- Public - The default profile is the public profile, used to designate public networks such as Wi-Fi hotspots at coffee shops, airports, and other locations.

  
## App & browser control
Windows Defender SmartScreen helps protect your device by checking for unrecognized apps and files from the web. 
## Device security
Memory Integrity - Prevents attacks from inserting malicious code into high-security processes.

Trusted Platform Module (TPM) technology is designed to provide hardware-based, security-related functions. A TPM chip is a secure crypto-processor that is designed to carry out cryptographic operations. The chip includes multiple physical security mechanisms to make it tamper-resistant, and malicious software is unable to tamper with the security functions of the TPM".

## BitLocker 
BitLocker Drive Encryption is a data protection feature that integrates with the operating system and addresses the threats of data theft or exposure from lost, stolen, or inappropriately decommissioned computers

## Volume Shadow Copy Service
 Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) coordinates the required actions to create a consistent shadow copy (also known as a snapshot or a point-in-time copy) of the data that is to be backed up.  Malware writers know of this Windows feature and write code in their malware to look for these files and delete them. Doing so makes it impossible to recover from a ransomware attack unless you have an offline/off-site backup.

  
To learn more about the Windows OS, you'll need to continue the journey on your own
Further reading material:


 [https://docs.microsoft.com/](https://docs.microsoft.com/)
 
[https://learn.microsoft.com/](https://learn.microsoft.com/)

[Antimalware Scan Interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/amsi/antimalware-scan-interface-portal)

[Credential Guard](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/credential-guard/configure?tabs=intune)

[Windows 10 Hello](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/learn-about-windows-hello-and-set-it-up-dae28983-8242-bb2a-d3d1-87c9d265a5f0#:~:text=Windows%2010,in%20with%20just%20your%20PIN.)

[CSO Online - The best new Windows 10 security features](https://www.csoonline.com/article/564531/the-best-new-windows-10-security-features.html)

