

# IDOR

IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference)  can occur when a web server receives user-supplied input to retrieve objects (files, data, documents), too much trust has been placed on the input data, and it is not validated on the server-side to confirm the requested object belongs to the user requesting it.

## Finding IDORs in Encoded IDs

When passing data from page to page either by post data,  web developers will often first take the raw data and encode it. Encoding ensures that the receiving web server will be able to understand the contents. The most common encoding technique on the web is base64 encoding and can usually be pretty easy to spot.

## Hashed IDs

Hashed IDs are a little bit more complicated, but they may follow a predictable pattern, such as being the hashed version of the integer value.

## Finding IDORs in Unpredictable IDs

If the ID cannot be detected using the above methods, an excellent method of IDOR detection is to create two accounts and swap the Id numbers between them. If you can view the other users' content using their Id number while still being logged in with a different account (or not logged in at all), you've found a valid IDOR vulnerability.

## A Practical IDOR Example

 You'll notice the username and email fields pre-filled in with your information. 

We'll start by investigating how this information gets pre-filled. If you open your browser developer tools, select the network tab and then refresh the page, you'll see a call to an endpoint with the path <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/api/v1/customer?id={user_id}</span>. This page returns in JSON format your user id, username and email address. We can see from the path that the user information shown is taken from the query string's id parameter 