---
sr-due: 2025-05-17
sr-interval: 51
sr-ease: 189
---


#review 
#web 

## Web Application Overview


**Front end** is the part of the web application that you can interact with (HTML, CSS, JS)
**Back end is** the part of the web application that you cannot see but are important to the web applications function. 
	- **Database**: where information is stored, modified, and retrieved. 
	- **Infrastructure**: web servers, application servers, storage, various network devices
	- **WAF**: Filters out dangerous requests away from web servers and provides an element of protection

## Uniform Resource Locator

[[../../1. Pre Security/How The Web Works/2. HTTP In Detail#Requests And Responses|URL]]

## HTTP Messages

HTTP messages are ;; packets of data exchanged between a user and the web server. These are important for understanding how web applications work because they show how users' request and server's response are communicated
<!--SR:!2025-08-07,107,244-->

**HTTP Requests**: Sent by the user to trigger actions on the web application.
**HTTP Responses**: Sent by the server in response to the user’s request.

 - Start line: tells you what kind of message is being sent-whether it is a request or a response
 - Headers: Made up of key value pairs that provide extra info about the HTTP message. Give instructions for both client and server
 - Empty line: Divider between header and body
 - Body: Where the actual data is stored

## HTTP Request: Request Line and Methods

HTTP request is what a user sends to a web server to interact with a web application and make something happen. 

#### Request line

The request line is the first part of an HTTP request and tells the server what kind of request its dealing with. It has three main parts the **HTTP method**, the **URL path**, and the **HTTP version**.

Example: <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">METHOD /path HTTP/version</mark>

#### HTTP Methods

[[../../1. Pre Security/How The Web Works/2. HTTP In Detail#HTTP Methods|HTTP Methods]]

#### URL Path

The URL path tells the server where to find a resource the user is asking for

Attackers often try to manipulate the URL path to exploit vulnerabilities so it is important to: 

- Validate the URL path
- Sanitize the path to avoid injection attacks
- Protect sensitive data by conducting privacy and risk assessments

#### HTTP Version

**HTTP/1.1** (1997) persistent connections, chunked transfer encoding, and better caching. Widely used today.

**HTTP/2** (2015)Introduced features like multiplexing, header compression, and prioritization for faster performance.

**HTTP/3** (2022)Built on HTTP/2, but uses a new protocol (QUIC) for quicker and more secure connections.

 HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 offer better speed and security, many systems still use **HTTP/1.1** because it’s well-supported and works with most existing setups. Upgrading to HTTP/2 or HTTP/3 can provide significant performance and security improvements


## HTTP Request: Headers and Body

[[../../1. Pre Security/How The Web Works/2. HTTP In Detail#Common Request Headers|Request Headers]]

#### Request Body

In HTTP requests such as POST and PUT, the data is located inside the HTTP Request Body. The formatting of the data can take many forms but the most common ones include:

- URL Encoded (application/x-www-form-urlencoded) ;; data is structure in key pairs and values. Multiple pairs are separated by  (&).
<!--SR:!2025-05-27,42,189-->

```http
POST /profile HTTP/1.1
Host: tryhackme.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 33

name=Aleksandra&age=27&country=US
```

- Form Data (multipart/form-data) ;; allows multiple data blocks to be sent where each block is separated by a boundary string. The boundary string is the defined header of the request itself
<!--SR:!2025-06-20,40,169-->

```http
POST /upload HTTP/1.1
Host: tryhackme.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW

----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="username"

aleksandra
----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="profile_pic"; filename="aleksandra.jpg"
Content-Type: image/jpeg

[Binary Data Here representing the image]
----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW--
```

- JSON (application/json) ;; formatted in pairs of name : value
<!--SR:!2025-05-14,29,209-->

```http
POST /api/user HTTP/1.1
Host: tryhackme.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 62

{
    "name": "Aleksandra",
    "age": 27,
    "country": "US"
}
```

XML (application/xml) ;; data is structured inside labels called tags, which have an opening and closing.
<!--SR:!2025-06-19,65,209-->

```http
POST /api/user HTTP/1.1
Host: tryhackme.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
Content-Type: application/xml
Content-Length: 124

<user>
    <name>Aleksandra</name>
    <age>27</age>
    <country>US</country>
</user>
```

## HTTP Response: Status Line and Status Code

#### Status Line
The first line in every HTTP response is called the Status Line. It gives you three key pieces on info:
1. HTTP Version: tells you which version of HTTP is being used
2. Status Code: A three-digit number showing the outcome of your request
3. Reason Phrase: short message explaining the status code in human readable terms

#### Status Codes and Reason Phrases

[[../../1. Pre Security/How The Web Works/2. HTTP In Detail#HTTP Status Codes|HTTP Status Codes]]

## HTTP Response: Headers and Body

When a web server responds to an HTTP request, it includes HTTP response headers. These headers provide important info about the response and tell the client how to handle it. 

[[../../1. Pre Security/How The Web Works/2. HTTP In Detail#Common Response Headers| Response Headers]]


## Security Headers

HTTP Security Headers help improve the overall security of web applications by providing mitigations against attacks lie XSS, clickjacking and others. 

#### Content Security Policy
?
Header that is an additional security layer that can help mitigate against common attacks such as XSS. CSP provides a way for administrators to say what domain and sources are considered safe.
<!--SR:!2025-05-20,35,169--> 

Looking at an example CSP header:

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; script-src 'self' https://cdn.tryhackme.com; style-src 'self'
default-src</mark>

- **default-src**
	- specifies the default policy of self, which means only the current website.

- **script-src**
	-  specifics the policy for where scripts can be loaded from, which is self along with scripts hosted 

- **style-src**
	-  specifies the policy for where style CSS style sheets can be loaded from the current website (self)

#### Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS)
?
Ensures web browsers will always connect over HTTPS
<!--SR:!2025-08-02,109,249-->

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=63072000; includeSubDomains; preload</mark>

- max-age
	-  expiry time in seconds

- includeSubDomains
	-  optional setting that instructs the browser to also apply this setting to all subdomains.

- preload
	-  optional setting that allows the website to be included in preload lists. Browsers can use preload lists to enforce HSTS before even having their first visit to a website.


#### X-Content-Type-Options
?
Instruct browsers not to guess the MIME time of a resource but only use the Content-Type header
<!--SR:!2025-06-09,29,189-->

<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff</mark>


- nosniff
	- This directive instructs the browser not to sniff or guess the MIME type.

#### Referrer-Policy
?
Controls the amount of information sent to the destination web server when a user is redirected from the source web server.
<!--SR:!2025-05-22,11,130--> 


- **no-referrer**  
    -  completely disables any information being sent about the referrer  
  
- **same-origin**  
    - only sends referrer information when the destination is part of the same origin. This is helpful when you want referrer information passed when hyperlinks are within the same website but not outside to external websites.  

- **strict-origin**  
    -  only sends the referrer as the origin when the protocol stays the same. 

- **strict-origin-when-cross-origin**  
    -  similar to strict-origin except for same-origin requests, where it sends the full URL path in the origin header.