---
sr-due: 2025-05-17
sr-interval: 51
sr-ease: 189
---

#review 
#web 
## Essential Concepts

Variables are containers that allow you to store data values in them. There are three ways to declare a variable in JS:

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">var</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">let</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">const</mark>

#### Data Types

Data types define the type of value a variable can hold. Examples include:

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">string</mark> 
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">number</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">boolean</mark>

#### Functions

Represents a block of code designed to perform a specific task

#### Loops

Allow you to run a block of code multiple times as long as a condition is true

## JavaScript Overview

JS is an ==interpreted language, meaning the code is executed directly in the browser without prior compilation==
<!--SR:!2025-05-07,22,149-->

JS is executed on the client side, which makes it easy to inspect and interact with HTML directly within the browser

## Integrating JavaScript in HTML

Usually JS is not used to render content; it works with HTML and CSS to create dynamic and interactive web pages. 

#### Internal JavaScript

Embedding the JS code directly within an HTML document with the \<script> tag

#### External JavaScript

Creating and storing JS code in separate file ending with a .js file extension. This file can be stored and hosted on the same web server as the HTML document or stored on an external web server such as the cloud. 

This approach allows us to keep the JS code separate from the HTML, making the code more organized and easier to maintain, especially when working on larger projects.

#### Verifying Internal or External JS

When pen-testing a web application, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">it is important to check whether the website uses internal or external JS</span>. This can be easily done by viewing the pages source code. 

If you see a \<script> tag with a **src** attribute, it indicates that the page is loading external JS from a separate file.

## Abusing Dialogue Functions

One of the main objectives of JS is to provide dialogue boxes for interaction with users and dynamically update content on web pages. JS provides functions such as <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">alert</mark>, <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">prompt</mark>, and <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">confirm</mark> to facilitate this interaction.

#### Alert

The alert function displays a message in a dialogue box with an "<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">OK</mark>" button, typically used to convey information or warnings to users

#### Prompt

displays a dialogue box that asks the user for input. It returns the entered value when the user clicks "<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">OK</mark>", or null if the user clicks "<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Cancel</mark>"

#### Confirm

displays a dialogue box with a message and two buttons: "<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">OK</mark>" and "<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Cancel</mark>". It returns true if the user clicks "OK" and false if the user clicks "Cancel".

#### How Hackers Exploit the Functionality

Imagine receiving an email from a stranger with an attached HTML file. The file looks harmless, but when you open it, it contains JS that disrupts your browsing experience.


``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Hacked</title>
</head>
<body>
    <script>
        for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
            alert("Hacked");
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html>
```

## Bypassing Control Flow Statements

Control flow refers to the order in which statements and code blocks are executed based on certain conditions. 

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">if-else</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">switch</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">for</mark> 
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">while</mark>
- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">do...while</mark>

## Exploring Minified Filters

Minification ;; the process of compressing JS files by removing all unnecessary characters such as spaces, line breaks, comments, and even shortening variable names. Helps reduce file size.
<!--SR:!2025-04-26,34,201-->

Obfuscation ;; used to make code harder to understand by adding undesired code, renaming variables, and even inserting dummy code
<!--SR:!2025-08-01,124,281-->

## Best Practices

#### Avoid using client side validation only

Users can disable and manipulate JS on the client side. Performing server side validation is also essential

#### Refrain from adding untrusted libraries

Bad actors upload bundles of libraries on the internet with names resembling legitimate ones. 

#### Avoid Hardcoded Secrets

Never Hardcode sensitive API keys, access tokens, or credentials into your codes

#### Minify and Obfuscate Your JS Code

Reduces its size and load time and makes it harder to understand the logic of the code. <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)">Always minify and obfuscate the code when using code in production</span>. The attacker can reverse engineer it, but getting the original code will at least take some effort

[Obfuscate](https://codebeautify.org/javascript-obfuscator)
[Minify](https://www.toptal.com/developers/javascript-minifier)