
## Specialized Search Engines

<span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Shodan </span>is a search engine for devices connected to the internet. Allows you to search for specific types and versions of servers, networking equipment, industrial control systems, and IoT

<span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Censys</span> focuses on Internet-connected hosts, websites, certificates, and other internet assets. Some of its use cases include enumerating domains in use, auditing open ports and ork

<span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">VirusTotal</span> provides a virus scanning service for files using multiple antivirus engines. allows users to upload files or provide URLs to scan them against numerous antivirus engines and website scanners in a single operation.

<span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Have I Been Pwned</span> tells you if an email address has appeared in a leaked data breach. Finding an email within leaked data indicates leaked private info and passwords

## Vulnerabilities and Exploits

 <span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)</span> is a library of vulnerabilities. Provides a standardized ID for vulnerabilities and security issues in software and hardware products.

<span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Exploit DB</span> provides working exploit codes; <span style="color:rgb(217, 145, 204)">Github</span> also contains codes for CVEs along with proof of concept codes

## Social Media

Explore platforms, create temporary accounts to discover them without linking them to your actual email address. Terminate account and email address once finished

Social media offers a ton of information for cyber security professionals, whether they are searching for people or technical information. Stay updated with new cyber security trends, technologies, and products. Following the proper channels and groups can help grow your technical expertise.