
# CyberChef: The Basics

CyberChef is a web-based application designed to help with various cyber operations within your web browser. These tasks range from encoding like XOR or Base64 to complex operations such as AES encryption or RSA decryption. CyberChef operates on recipes, a series of operations executed in order.

#### The Operations Area

This is a practical and comprehensive repository of all the diverse operations that CyberChef is equipped to perform. You can directly check how the operations work by hovering on the specific operation.

#### The Recipe Area

This is considered as the heart of the tool. In this area you can arrange and fine tune operations suited to your needs. The **BAKE** button is used to process the data. **Auto Bake** allows users to automatically cook using the selected recipe without manually clicking the BAKE button

#### Input Area

provides a user-friendly space where you can easily input text or files by pasting, typing, or dragging them to perform operations.

#### Output Area

showcases the data processing results

# CAPA: The Basics

CAPA (Common Analysis Platform for Artifacts) is designed to help identify the capabilities present in executable files like Portable Executables (PE), ELF binaries, .NET modules, shellcode, and even sandbox reports. It does this by analyzing the file and applying a set of rules the describes common behaviors, allowing it to determine what the program is capable of doing. 

It encapsulates years of reverse engineering knowledge into an automated tool, making it accessible even to those who may not be experts in reverse engineering. This can be incredibly useful for analysts and security professionals, allowing them to quickly understand potentially malicious software's functionality without manually reverse engineering the code.

## Tool Overview: How CAPA Works

1. Open PowerShell.
2. Make sure you are in directory **C:\Users\Administrator\Desktop\capa**
3. Run capa command and point to the binary file

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-h </span> gives more info about the parameters available 
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-v</span> enables verbose result document

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 1: General Information, MITRE and MAEC

The first block contains basic information about the file.

#### MITRE ATT&CK

The MITRE ATT&CK (Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge) is a repository that documents the tactics and techniques employed by threat actors at every stage of the cyber-attack. 

In CAPA's final output, they referenced the MITRE Framework. This helps analysts or defenders map the file's behavior to the adversary's playbook, which can help narrow down the scope of the investigation during an incident. 

#### MAEC

**Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization** is a specialized language designed to encode and communicate complex details concerning malware. . This language functions as a standardized system for tracking and analyzing the complicated complexities of malware.

Common MAEC values:

- Launcher - Exhibits behaviors that trigger specific actions similar to malware behavior.
- Downloader - Exhibits behaviors wherein it downloads and executes other files, usually seen on more complex malware.

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 2: Malware Behavior Catalogue
### Malware Behavior Catalogue (MBC)

MBC is designed to support various aspects of malware analysis, such as labelling, similarity analysis, and standardized reporting. It is essentially a catalog of malware objectives and behaviors.  MBC users will reference ATT&CK, but MBC does not duplicate ATT&CK information.

#### Objective

The Objective are based on ATT&CK tactics in the context of malware behavior. Behaviors include but are not limited to:
- Anti-Behavioral Analysis
- Anti-Static Analysis
- Collection
- C2
- Credential Access

#### Micro-Objective

Micro-objectives are associated with micro-behaviors, which refer to an action or actions exhibited by potentially malicious software that isn't necessarily malicious and may serve various objectives. **These behaviors are typically abused**

#### MBC Behaviors

 MBC Behaviors contains behaviors and Micro-behaviors with or without its methods and identifiers.

#### Micro-Behavior

The term "low-level behaviors" in malware analysis refers to actions exhibited by malware that aren't necessarily malicious and may serve various objectives. It's important to **note that just because a behavior is categorized as low-level does not mean it is harmless**. 

#### Methods

Methods are tied to behaviors

## Dissecting CAPA Results Part 3: Namespaces

[capa rules](https://github.com/MBCProject/capa-rules-1?tab=readme-ov-file#namespace-organization)

# REMnux: Getting Started

 REMnux VM is a specialized distro.  It includes tools like Volatility, YARA, Wireshark, oledump, and INetSim. It also provides a sandbox-like environment for dissecting potentially malicious software without risking your primary system. 

## File analysis

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 240)">oledump.py</span> is a python tool that analyzed OLE2 files, commonly called commonly called Structured Storage or Compound File Binary Format. OLE stands for Object Linking and Embedding. They are typically used to store multiple data types such as documents, spreadsheets, and presentations within a single file. 

```
oledump.py agenttesla.xlsm -s 4 --vbadecompress
```

<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-s </span>select
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">4</span> selects data stream of interest in the fourth place
<span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--vbadecompress</span>   automatically decompresses any compressed VBA micros it finds into a more readable format

## Fake Network to Aid Analysis

INetSim's simulate a real network

Configure iNetSim in REMnux VM:

- Change dns_default to  REMnux VM machines IP. 
- Run sudo inetsim
- Connect to REMnux VM machines IP in your attack box
- Download files from inetsim using wget
- Stop iNetSim
- Get logs from  <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">/var/log/inetsim/report/</span>

### Memory Investigation: Evidence Preprocessing

Preprocessing evidence involves running tools and saving the results in text or JSON format. The analyst often relies on tools such as Volatility when dealing with memory images as evidence. Volatility commands are executed to identify and extract specific artefacts from memory images, and the resulting output can be saved to text files for further examination.

### Preprocessing With Volatility

We will run each plugin after the command <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">vol3 -f wcry.mem</mark>

- windows.pstree.PsTree - lists processes in a tree based on their parent process ID
- windows.pslist.PsList - list all currently active processes in the machine
- windows.cmdline.CmdLine -  list process command line arguments 
- windows.filescan.FileScan - cans for file objects in a particular Windows memory image. 
- windows.dlllist.DllList - lists the loaded modules in a particular Windows memory image.
- windows.malfind.Malfind - lists process memory ranges that potentially contain injected code.
- windows.psscan.PsScan -  scan for processes present in a particular Windows memory image

# FlareVM: Arsenal of Tools

Forensics, Logic Analysis, and Reverse Engineering is a comprehensive collection of specialized tools designed to meet the specific needs of reverse engineers, malware analysts, incident responders, forensic investigators, and pen testers. 

## Commonly Used Tools for Investigation: Overview

#### Process Monitor (Procmon)

Lets you see, record, and keep track of system and Windows file activity in real-time. Process Monitor is helpful for tracking system activity, especially regarding malware research, troubleshooting, and forensic investigations.

#### Process Explorer (Procexp)

Allows you to delve into the inner workings of your system, providing a comprehensive list of currently running processes and their linked user accounts. If you've ever been curious about which program is accessing a specific file or folder, Process Explorer can provide us with that info. 

#### HxD

A hex editor. Features include viewing files and memory content, editing, searching, and comparing hex data

#### CFF Explorer

Allows investigators to generate file hashes for integrity verification, authenticate the source of system files, and validate their validity

#### Wireshark

[[../3. Networking/3. Networking#Wireshark The Basics|Wireshark The Basics]]

#### PEStudio

Used for static analysis. Offers a variety of information about a file without putting users in danger of execution

#### FLOSS

Automatically extracts and de-obfuscates all strings from malware programs. 