
# FlareVM: Arsenal of Tools

Forensics, Logic Analysis, and Reverse Engineering is a comprehensive collection of specialized tools designed to meet the specific needs of reverse engineers, malware analysts, incident responders, forensic investigators, and pen testers. 

## Commonly Used Tools for Investigation: Overview

#### Process Monitor (Procmon)

Lets you see, record, and keep track of system and Windows file activity in real-time. Process Monitor is helpful for tracking system activity, especially regarding malware research, troubleshooting, and forensic investigations.

#### Process Explorer (Procexp)

Allows you to delve into the inner workings of your system, providing a comprehensive list of currently running processes and their linked user accounts. If you've ever been curious about which program is accessing a specific file or folder, Process Explorer can provide us with that info. 

#### HxD

A hex editor. Features include viewing files and memory content, editing, searching, and comparing hex data

#### CFF Explorer

Allows investigators to generate file hashes for integrity verification, authenticate the source of system files, and validate their validity

#### Wireshark

[[../3. Networking/3. Networking#Wireshark The Basics|Wireshark The Basics]]

#### PEStudio

Used for static analysis. Offers a variety of information about a file without putting users in danger of execution

#### FLOSS

Automatically extracts and de-obfuscates all strings from malware programs. 