---
sr-due: 2025-05-05
sr-interval: 8
sr-ease: 150
---

#review 
# SQLMap: The Basics

A database is a collection of data that can be stored, modified, and retrieved. It stores data from several applications in a structured format, making storage, modification, and retrieval easy and efficient. Websites have databases that store the users information. So when you enter your credentials to a websites login page, the website interacts with the database to see if these credentials are correct. The databases are managed by Database Management Systems (DBMS), such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, or Microsoft SQL Server.

Let’s assume the website login page we discussed above lacks input validation and sanitization. This means that it is vulnerable to SQL injection. The attacker does not know the password of the user John. They will type the following input in the given fields:

``` mysql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'John' AND password = 'abc' OR 1=1;-- -';
```

This query will check if there is a user John, and then check if he has the password abc. Ideally, the query should fail here because it expects both username and password to be correct, as the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">AND</mark> operator is between them. This query, however, has another condition <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">OR 1=1</mark>.  Any one of them being true will make the whole SQL query successful. The password failed, so the query will check the next condition, which checks if 1=1. As we know, 1=1 is always true, so it will ignore the random password entered before this and consider this statement as true, which will successfully execute this query. The<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;"> -- - </mark>at the end of the query would comment anything after 1=1, which means the query would be successfully executed, and the attacker would get logged in to John’s user account.

One of the important things to note here is the use of a single quote <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">'</mark> after <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">abc</mark>. Without this single quote,' the whole string <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">'abc OR 1=1;-- -'</mark> would be considered the password, which is not intended. However, if we add a single quote ' after abc, the password would look like 'abc' OR 1=1;---', which encloses the original string abc in the query and allows us to introduce a logical condition<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;"> OR 1=1</mark>, which is always true.

## Automated SQL Injection Tool

SQLMap is an automated tool for detecting and exploiting SQL injection vulnerabilities in wen applications. It simplifies the process of identifying these vulnerabilities. 

- The <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--wizard</span> flag with SQLMap will guide you through each step and ask questions to complete the scan
 - <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--dbs</span> flag helps extract all the database names. Once you get to know the database names, 
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-D</span> \<database_name><span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> --tables</span>  can extract information about the tables of that database 
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-D</span> \<database_name><span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)"> -T</span> \<table name> <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">--dump</span> - enumerate the records in those tables


If you see any web application using GET parameters in the URLs to retrieve data, you can test that URL with the <span style="color:rgb(255, 192, 0)">-u</span> flag in the SQLMap tool. This is considered to be HTTP GET-based testing. This approach is followed when the application uses GET parameters in the URL to retrieve data from the searches. http://sqlmaptesting.thm/search?cat=1 would be a get request. The GET parameter is cat=1

```
sqlmap -u http://sqlmaptesting.thmsearch/cat=1 -D users -T thomas --dump
```


You can also use POST-based testing, where the application sends data in the request's body instead of the URL. Examples of this could be login forms, registration forms, etc. To follow this approach, you must intercept a POST request on the login or registration page and save it as a text file. You can use the following command to input that request saved in the text file to the SQLMap tool

```
sqlmap -r intercepted_request.txt
```

## Practical Exercise

Sometimes the GET request doesn't show.  To get the complete URL along with its GET parameters, we need to right-click on the login page and click the inspect option (the process may vary slightly from browser to browser). From here, we have to select the Network tab; then we have to enter some test credentials in the username and password fields and click the login button, and we will be able to see the GET request.

