#review 

# Content Discovery


When we talk about discovery, we are talking about the things that are not immediately presented to us and that weren't intended for us to have access to. This content could be, for example, pages or portals intended for staff usage, older versions of the website, backup files, configuration files, administration panels, etc.

There are three main ways of discovering content on a website:
- Manually
- Automated
- OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence)

## Manual Discover

#### Robots.txt

The robots.txt file is a document that tells search engines which pages they are and aren't allowed to show on their search engine results or ban specific search engines from crawling the website altogether. This file gives us a great list of locations on the website that the owners don't want us to discover as penetration testers.

#### Favicon

The favicon is a small icon displayed in the browser's address bar or tab used for branding a website. Sometimes when frameworks are used to build a website, a favicon that is part of the installation gets leftover, and if the website developer doesn't replace this with a custom one, this can give us a clue on what framework is in use.

#### Sitemap.xml

sitemap.xml file gives a list of every file the website owner wishes to be listed on a search engine. These can sometimes contain areas of the website that are a bit more difficult to navigate to or even list some old webpages that the current site no longer uses but are still working behind the scenes.

#### HTTP Headers

When we make requests to the web server, the server returns various HTTP headers. These headers can sometimes contain useful information such as the webserver software and possibly the programming/scripting language in use. Using this information, we could find vulnerable versions of software being used.

```
curl WEBPAGE_DOMAIN -v
```

#### Framework Stack

Once you've established the framework of a website, you can then locate the framework's website. From there, we can learn more about the software and other information, possibly leading to more content we can discover.

## OSINT

#### Google Hacking/Dorking

| **Filter** | **Example**        | **Description**                                              |
| ---------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| site       | site:tryhackme.com | returns results only from the specified website address      |
| inurl      | inurl:admin        | returns results that have the specified word in the URL      |
| filetype   | filetype:pdf       | returns results which are a particular file extension        |
| intitle    | intitle:admin      | returns results that contain the specified word in the title |
#### Wappalyzer

Wappalyzer (https://www.wappalyzer.com/) is an online tool and browser extension that helps identify what technologies a website uses, such as frameworks, Content Management Systems (CMS), payment processors and much more

#### Wayback Machine

The Wayback Machine (https://archive.org/web/) is a historical archive of websites that dates back to the late 90s. You can search a domain name, and it will show you all the times the service scraped the web page and saved the contents. This service can help uncover old pages that may still be active on the current website.

#### GitHub

 Git is a version control system that tracks changes to files in a project. Working in a team is easier because you can see what each team member is editing and what changes they made to files. When users have finished making their changes, they commit them with a message and then push them back to a central location (repository) for the other users to then pull those changes to their local machines. You can use GitHub's search feature to look for company names or website names to try and locate repositories belonging to your target. Once discovered, you may have access to source code, passwords or other content that you hadn't yet found.

#### S3 Buckets

S3 Buckets are a storage service provided by Amazon AWS, allowing people to save files and even static website content in the cloud accessible over HTTP and HTTPS. Sometimes S3 bucket permissions are incorrectly set and inadvertently allow access to files that shouldn't be available to the public. The format of the S3 buckets is http(s)://{name}.s3.amazonaws.com where {name} is decided by the owner

## Automate Discovery 

```
ffuf -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt -u WEBSITE/FUZZ
```

```
dirb WEBSITE /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt
```

```
gobuster dir --url WEEBSITE -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/common.txt
```

Wordlist: https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists